Rework Ceph RBD migration documentation (#461)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_migrating-mon-from-controller-nodes.adoc

[id="migrating-mon-from-controller-nodes_{context}"]

= Migrating Ceph Monitor daemons to {Ceph} nodes

The following section describes how to move Ceph Monitor daemons from the
{rhos_prev_long} Controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might
be pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or {OpenStackShort} Compute nodes if {Ceph} is
deployed by {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.
This procedure assumes that some of the steps are run on the source node that
we want to decommission, while other steps are run on the target node that is
supposed to host the redeployed daemon.

.Prerequisites

> Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`
```

6: vlan1    inet 192.168.24.14/24 brd 192.168.24.255 scope global vlan1\       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
7: vlan11    inet 172.16.11.172/24 brd 172.16.11.255 scope global vlan11\       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
8: vlan12    inet 172.16.12.46/24 brd 172.16.12.255 scope global vlan12\       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

.Procedure

. Ssh into the target node and enable the firewall rules that are required to
  reach a Mon service:
+
----
$ for port in 3300 6789; {
    ssh heat-admin@<target_node> sudo iptables -I INPUT \
    -p tcp -m tcp --dport $port -m conntrack --ctstate NEW \
    -j ACCEPT;
}
----
+
* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the node that is supposed to
  host the new mon.

. Check that the rules are properly applied and persist them:
+
----
sudo iptables-save
sudo systemctl restart iptables
----

. To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, create the following
  {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first Controller node) and modify the
  placement based on the appropriate label.
+
[source,yaml]
----
service_type: mon
service_id: mon
placement:
  label: mon
----

> . Save the spec in `/tmp/mon.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mon.yaml` file.
```

Author: Done

HOST              ADDR           LABELS          STATUS
oc0-ceph-0        192.168.24.14  osd
oc0-ceph-1        192.168.24.7   osd
oc0-controller-0  192.168.24.15  _admin mgr mon
oc0-controller-1  192.168.24.23  _admin mgr mon
oc0-controller-2  192.168.24.13  _admin mgr mon
----

. On the source node, back up the `/etc/ceph/` directory. The backup allows you
  to execute cephadm and get a shell to the {Ceph} cluster from the source node:
+
----
$ mkdir -p $HOME/ceph_client_backup
$ sudo cp -R /etc/ceph $HOME/ceph_client_backup
----

. Before draining the source node and relocating the IP address of the storage
  network to the target node, fail the ceph-mgr if it is active on the
  source node:
+
----
$ ceph mgr fail <mgr instance>
----

. Drain the source node and start the mon migration. From the cephadm shell,
  remove the labels on the source node:
+
----
for label in mon mgr _admin; do
    ceph orch host rm label <source_node> $label;
done
----

. Remove the running mon daemon from the source node:
+
----
$ cephadm shell -- ceph orch daemon rm mon.<source_node> --force"
----

. Run the drain command:
+
----
$ cephadm shell -- ceph drain <source_node>
----

> . Remove the `<source_node>` host from the {CephCluster}:

Author: Done

+
----
$ cephadm shell -- ceph orch host rm <source_node> --force"
----
+
* Replace `<source_node>` with the hostname of the source node.
+

> [Note]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
```

Author: Done

[id="migrating-mon-from-controller-nodes_{context}"]

= Migrating Ceph Monitor daemons to {Ceph} nodes

> The following section describes how to move Ceph Monitor daemons from the
> OpenStack controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might be
> pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or OpenStack Compute nodes if Ceph is deployed by
> {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section describes how to move Ceph Monitor daemons from the
{rhos_prev_long} Controller nodes to a set of target nodes. Target nodes might be
pre-existing {Ceph} nodes, or {OpenStackShort} Compute nodes if {Ceph} is deployed by
{OpenStackPreviousInstaller} with an HCI topology.
```

Author: Done

.Prerequisites

Configure the target nodes (CephStorage or ComputeHCI) to have both `storage`
and `storage_mgmt` networks to ensure that you can use both {Ceph} public and
cluster networks from the same node. This step requires you to interact with
{OpenStackPreviousInstaller}. From {rhos_prev_long} {rhos_prev_ver} and later
you do not have to run a stack update. However, there are commands that you
must perform to run `os-net-config` on the bare metal node and configure
additional networks.

> .. If target nodes are `CephStorage`, ensure that the network is defined in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If target nodes are `CephStorage`, ensure that the network is defined in the
```

Author: Done

must perform to run `os-net-config` on the bare metal node and configure
additional networks.

> .. If target nodes are `CephStorage`, ensure that the network is defined in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If target nodes are `CephStorage`, ensure that the network is defined in the
```

Author: Done

  - name: CephStorage
    count: 2
    instances:
      - hostname: oc0-ceph-0
        name: oc0-ceph-0
      - hostname: oc0-ceph-1
        name: oc0-ceph-1
    defaults:
      networks:
        - network: ctlplane
          vif: true
        - network: storage_cloud_0
            subnet: storage_cloud_0_subnet
        - network: storage_mgmt_cloud_0
            subnet: storage_mgmt_cloud_0_subnet
      network_config:
        template: templates/single_nic_vlans/single_nic_vlans_storage.j2
----

> .. Run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run the provisioning command:
```

Author: Done

+
----
openstack overcloud node provision \
  -o overcloud-baremetal-deployed-0.yaml --stack overcloud-0 \
  --network-config -y --concurrency 2 /home/stack/metalsmith-0.yam
----

> .. Verify that the storage network is configured on the target nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the storage network is configured on the target nodes:
```

Author: Done

> openstack overcloud node provision \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ openstack overcloud node provision \
```

Author: Done

  --network-config -y --concurrency 2 /home/stack/metalsmith-0.yam
----

. Verify that the storage network is configured on the target nodes:
+
----

> (undercloud) [stack@undercloud ~]$ ssh heat-admin@192.168.24.14 ip -o -4 a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ (undercloud) [stack@undercloud ~]$ ssh heat-admin@192.168.24.14 ip -o -4 a
```

Author: `$` shoudn't apply here because the prompt init after the hostname (`undercloud ~]`).

8: vlan12    inet 172.16.12.46/24 brd 172.16.12.255 scope global vlan12\       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

.Procedure

This procedure assumes that some of the steps are run on the source node that
we want to decommission, while other steps are run on the target node that is

> supposed to host the redeployed daemon.

Reviewer: Move this paragraph after "... or OpenStack Compute nodes if Ceph is deployed by director with an HCI topology."

Author: +1

Author: Done

> . Before you start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ssh into the target node and enable the
```

Author: Done

> . Before start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the firewall
> rules required to reach a Mon service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Before you start the migration, ssh into the target node and enable the firewall
rules that are required to reach a Mon service:
```

Author: Done

+
----
for port in 3300 6789; {
    ssh heat-admin@<target_node> sudo iptables -I INPUT \
    -p tcp -m tcp --dport $port -m conntrack --ctstate NEW \
    -j ACCEPT;
}

> ----
> 
> - Replace <target_node> with the hostname of the node that is supposed to host
> the new mon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
*Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the node that is supposed to host
the new mon.
```

Author: Done

> ----
> 
> * Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the node that is supposed to
>   host the new mon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the node that is supposed to
  host the new mon.
```

> . Check the rules are properly applied and persist them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that the rules are properly applied and persist them:
```

Author: Done

+
----
sudo iptables-save
sudo systemctl restart iptables
----

> . To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, the first step is to
> create the following {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller)
> and modify the placement based on the appropriate label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, the first step is to
create the following {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller)
and modify the placement based on the appropriate label.
```
```suggestion
. To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, 
create the following {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller)
and modify the placement based on the appropriate label.
```

> . To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, the first step is to
> create the following {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller)
> and modify the placement based on the appropriate label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, 
create the following {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller)
and modify the placement based on the appropriate label.
```

Author: Done

> . To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, create the following
>   {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first controller) and modify the
>   placement based on the appropriate label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To migrate the existing Mons to the target {Ceph} nodes, create the following
  {Ceph} spec from the first mon (or the first Controller node) and modify the
  placement based on the appropriate label.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
service_type: mon
service_id: mon
placement:
  label: mon
----

> . Save the spec in /tmp/mon.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in `/tmp/mon.yaml`.
```

Author: Done

> . Save the spec in `/tmp/mon.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mon.yaml` directory.
```
Same question about whether this is a directory.

Author: same as my previous comment

> . Apply the spec with cephadm using the orchestrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the spec with cephadm by using the orchestrator:
```

Author: Done

+

> ----
> sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
> ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
$ sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
$ ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml
----
```

+
[NOTE]

> The effect of applying the `mon.yaml` spec is to normalize the existng placement
> strategy to use `labels` instead of `hosts`. By doing this any node with the `mon`
> label is able to host a Ceph mon daemon.
> You can execute the step above once to avoid multiple iterations over this
> procedure when multiple Ceph Mons are migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying the `mon.yaml` spec allows the existing placement
strategy to use `labels` instead of `hosts`. As a result, any node with the `mon`
label can host a Ceph mon daemon.
Execute this step once to avoid multiple iterations when multiple Ceph Mons are migrated.
```
@fmount Let me know if my edits changed the intended meaning of the note.

Author: it's good, thank you for the suggestion!

> The step above can be executed once, and it shouldn't be repeated in case of
> multiple iterations over this procedure when multiple Ceph Mons are migrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can execute the step above once to avoid
multiple iterations over this procedure when multiple Ceph Mons are migrated.
```

Author: Done

> . Check the status of the {CephCluster} and the orchestrator daemons list. Make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the status of the {CephCluster} and the Ceph Orchestrator daemons list. Make
```

> . Before moving to the next step, check the status of the {CephCluster} and the
> orchestrator daemons list: make sure the three mons are in quorum and listed by
> the `ceph orch` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the status of the {CephCluster} and the
orchestrator daemons list. Make sure that the three mons are in quorum and listed by
the `ceph orch` command:
```

Author: Done

----
# ceph -s
  cluster:
    id:     f6ec3ebe-26f7-56c8-985d-eb974e8e08e3
    health: HEALTH_OK

  services:
    mon: 3 daemons, quorum oc0-controller-0,oc0-controller-1,oc0-controller-2 (age 19m)
    mgr: oc0-controller-0.xzgtvo(active, since 32m), standbys: oc0-controller-1.mtxohd, oc0-controller-2.ahrgsk
    osd: 8 osds: 8 up (since 12m), 8 in (since 18m); 1 remapped pgs

  data:
    pools:   1 pools, 1 pgs
    objects: 0 objects, 0 B
    usage:   43 MiB used, 400 GiB / 400 GiB avail
    pgs:     1 active+clean
----
+
----
[ceph: root@oc0-controller-0 /]# ceph orch host ls
HOST              ADDR           LABELS          STATUS
oc0-ceph-0        192.168.24.14  osd
oc0-ceph-1        192.168.24.7   osd
oc0-controller-0  192.168.24.15  _admin mgr mon
oc0-controller-1  192.168.24.23  _admin mgr mon
oc0-controller-2  192.168.24.13  _admin mgr mon
----

> . On the source node, back up the `/etc/ceph/` directory. In case of issues,
>   this backup allows you to have the ability to execute cephadm and get a shell
>   to the {Ceph} cluster from the source node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the source node, back up the `/etc/ceph/` directory. The backup allows you to execute cephadm and get a shell to the {Ceph} cluster from the source node:
```

Author: Done

> . On the source node, backup the `/etc/ceph/` directory: this allows, in case
> of issues, to have the ability to execute cephadm and get a shell to the ceph
> cluster from the source node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the source node, back up the `/etc/ceph/` directory. In case of issues, this backup allows you to have the ability to execute cephadm and get a shell to the {Ceph} cluster from the source node:
```

Author: Done

----

> mkdir -p $HOME/ceph_client_backup
> sudo cp -R /etc/ceph $HOME/ceph_client_backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ mkdir -p $HOME/ceph_client_backup
$ sudo cp -R /etc/ceph $HOME/ceph_client_backup
```

sudo cp -R /etc/ceph $HOME/ceph_client_backup
----

. Before draining the source node and relocating the IP address of the storage

> network to to the target node, fail the mgr if is active on the source node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
network to to the target node, fail the mgr if it is active on the source node:
```

Author: Done

> . Before draining the source node and relocating the IP address of the storage
>   network to to the target node, fail the ceph-mgr if it is active on the
>   source node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Before draining the source node and relocating the IP address of the storage
  network to the target node, fail the ceph-mgr if it is active on the
  source node:
```

+
----

> ceph mgr fail <mgr instance>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ceph mgr fail <mgr instance>
```

----

. Drain the source node and start the mon migration. From the cephadm shell,

> remove the labels on source node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remove the labels on the source node:
```

Author: Done

+
----
    for label in mon mgr _admin; do
           ceph orch host rm label <source_node> $label;
    done
----

. Remove the running mon daemon from the source node:
+
----
cephadm shell -- ceph orch daemon rm mon.<source_node> --force"
----

. Run the drain command:
+
----
cephadm shell -- ceph drain <source_node>
----

> . Remove the source_node host from the {CephCluster}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Remove the `source_node` host from the {CephCluster}:
```

Author: Done

+
----

> cephadm shell -- ceph orch host rm <source_node> --force"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ cephadm shell -- ceph orch host rm <source_node> --force"
```

> ----
> 
> - Replace <source_node> with the hostname of the source node.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<source_node>` with the hostname of the source node.

```

Author: Done

The source node is not part of the cluster anymore, and shouldn't appear in the

> Ceph host list when running `cephadm shell -- ceph orch host ls`.

Author: Done

> ----
> 
> * Replace `<source_node>` with the hostname of the source node.
> 
> The source node is not part of the cluster anymore, and should not appear in
> the {Ceph} host list when running `cephadm shell -- ceph orch host ls`.
> However, a `sudo podman ps` in the source node might list both mon and mgr still
> running.
> 
> ----
> [root@oc0-controller-1 ~]# sudo podman ps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace `<source_node>` with the hostname of the source node.
+
The source node is not part of the cluster anymore, and should not appear in
the {Ceph} host list when running `cephadm shell -- ceph orch host ls`.
However, a `sudo podman ps` in the source node might list both mon and mgr still
running.
+
----
[root@oc0-controller-1 ~]# sudo podman ps
```

Reviewer: Should line 194-210 be a note? We're letting customers know that they might still see mon and mgr still running in the source node even though they're not running?

3b14cc7bf4dd  quay.io/ceph/daemon@sha256:320c364dcc8fc8120e2a42f54eb39ecdba12401a2546763b7bef15b02ce93bc4  -n mgr.oc0-contro...  35 minutes ago  Up 35 minutes ago              ceph-f6ec3ebe-26f7-56c8-985d-eb974e8e08e3-mgr-oc0-controller-1-mtxohd
endif::[]
ifeval::["{build}" == "downstream"]
5c1ad36472bc  registry.redhat.io/ceph/rhceph@sha256:320c364dcc8fc8120e2a42f54eb39ecdba12401a2546763b7bef15b02ce93bc4  -n mon.oc0-contro...  35 minutes ago  Up 35 minutes ago              ceph-f6ec3ebe-26f7-56c8-985d-eb974e8e08e3-mon-oc0-controller-1
3b14cc7bf4dd  registry.redhat.io/ceph/rhceph@sha256:320c364dcc8fc8120e2a42f54eb39ecdba12401a2546763b7bef15b02ce93bc4  -n mgr.oc0-contro...  35 minutes ago  Up 35 minutes ago              ceph-f6ec3ebe-26f7-56c8-985d-eb974e8e08e3-mgr-oc0-controller-1-mtxohd
endif::[]
----

To cleanup the source node before moving to the next phase, cleanup the existing
containers and remove the cephadm related data from the node.
// fpantano: there's an automated procedure run through cephadm but it's too
// risky. If the user doesn't perform it properly the cluster can be affected.
// We can put a downstream comment to contact the RH support to clean the source

> // node up in case of leftovers, and open a bug for cephadm.

Author: I'm still investigating this  part, the command would be `cephadm rm-cluster --fsid <fsid> --force`.
If that command is run on a node that is not part of ceph anymore, the effect is to remove the existing orphaned containers, but if someone runs this command (by mistake) on a node that is part of Ceph, we destroy the cluster!
The fact that we have leftovers after draining the node (orphaned containers) might be a bug for ceph, but the workaround is too risky IMO and I have to come up w/ something safe.
I'll reiterate on this part with a small follow up.

//. ssh into one of the existing Ceph mons (usually controller-1 or controller-2)
. Prepare the target node to host the new mon and add the `mon` label to the
target node:
+
----
for label in mon mgr _admin; do
    ceph orch host label add <target_node> $label; done
done

> ----
> 
> * Replace <target_node> with the hostname of the host listed in the {CephCluster}
>   through the `ceph orch host ls` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
* Replace <target_node> with the hostname of the host listed in the {CephCluster}
  through the `ceph orch host ls` command.
```

Author: Done

At this point the cluster is running with only two mons, but a third mon appears
and will be deployed on the target node.
However, The third mon might be deployed on a different ip address available in
the node, and you need to redeploy it when the ip migration is concluded.
Even though the mon is deployed on the wrong ip address, it's useful keep the
quorum to three and it ensures we do not risk to lose the cluster because two

> mons go in split brain.

Reviewer: This text looks like it should be a note.

Author: Added the note header

> . Confirm the cluster has three mons and they're in quorum:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the cluster has three mons and they are in quorum:
```

Author: Done

+
----

> cephadm shell -- ceph -s
> cephamd shell -- ceph orch ps | grep -i mon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cephadm shell -- ceph -s
cephadm shell -- ceph orch ps | grep -i mon
```

Author: Fixed!

> ----
> 
> It's now possible to migrate the original mon ip address to the target node and
> redeploy the existing mon on it.
> The following IP address migration procedure assumes that the target nodes have
> been originally deployed by {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} and the network configuration
> is managed by `os-net-config`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
It is now possible to migrate the original mon IP address to the target node and
redeploy the existing mon on it.
The following IP address migration procedure assumes that the target nodes have
been originally deployed by {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} and the network configuration
is managed by `os-net-config`.
```

Author: Done

// NOTE (fpantano): we need to document the same ip address migration procedure
// w/ an EDPM node that has already been adopted.

. Get the mon ip address from the existing `/etc/ceph/ceph.conf` (check the `mon_host`
line), for example:
+
----
mon_host = [v2:172.17.3.60:3300/0,v1:172.17.3.60:6789/0] [v2:172.17.3.29:3300/0,v1:172.17.3.29:6789/0] [v2:172.17.3.53:3300/0,v1:172.17.3.53:6789/0]
----

> . Confirm the mon ip address is present on the source node `os-net-config`
> configuration located in `/etc/os-net-config`:
> +
> ----
> 
> [tripleo-admin@controller-0 ~]$ grep "172.17.3.60" /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml
>     - ip_netmask: 172.17.3.60/24
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Confirm that the mon IP address is present on the source node `os-net-config`
configuration located in `/etc/os-net-config`:
+
----
[tripleo-admin@controller-0 ~]$ grep "172.17.3.60" /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml
    - ip_netmask: 172.17.3.60/24
----
```

Author: Done

> . Edit the config file `/etc/os-net-config/config.yaml` and remove the
> `ip_netmask` line retrieved in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the `/etc/os-net-config/config.yaml` config file and remove the
`ip_netmask` line.
```

> . Save the file and refresh the node network configuration with the following
> command:
> +
> ----
> sudo os-net-config -c /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the file and refresh the node network configuration:
+
----
$ sudo os-net-config -c /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml
----
```

Author: Done

. Verify, using the `ip` command, that the IP address is not present in the source
node anymore.

> ssh into the target node, for example `cephstorage-0`, and add the ip address
> that will be bound to the new mon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ssh into the target node, for example `cephstorage-0`, and add the IP address
that will be bound to the new mon.
```

> . On the target node, edit the config file `/etc/os-net-config/config.yaml` and
> add the `- ip_netmask: 172.17.3.60` line removed in the source node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the target node, edit the `/etc/os-net-config/config.yaml`  config file and
add the `- ip_netmask: 172.17.3.60` line that you removed in the source node.
```

Author: Done

. Save the file and refresh the node network configuration with the following

> command:

Author: Done

+
----

> sudo os-net-config -c /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo os-net-config -c /etc/os-net-config/config.yaml
```

----

. Verify, using the `ip` command, that the IP address is present in the target
node.

> Get the Ceph spec and set the mon daemons to `unmanaged`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

. Get the ceph mon spec:
+
----
ceph orch ls --export mon > mon.yaml
----

> .Edit the retrieved spec and add the `unamanged: true` keyword:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the retrieved spec and add the `unamanged: true` keyword:
```

Reviewer: Should the keyword say "unmanaged"?

Author: yes! good catch thanks!

+
[source,yaml]
----
service_type: mon
service_id: mon
placement:
  label: mon

> unamanged: true

Reviewer: unmanaged?

> unamanged: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unmanaged: true
```

Author: good catch! Fixed

----

> . Save the spec in /tmp/mon.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mon.yaml` directory.
```

> . Apply the spec with cephadm using the orchestrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the spec with cephadm by using the orchestrator:
```

+
----

> sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
> ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
$ ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml
```

Author: Done

----

The mon daemons are marked as <unmanaged>, and it's now possible to redeploy

> the existing daemon and bind it to the migrated ip address.

Author: Done

. Delete the existing mon on the target node:
+
----
$ ceph orch daemon add rm mon.<target_node> --force
----

. Redeploy the new mon on the target using the old IP address:
+
----

> $ ceph orch daemon add mon <target_node>:<ip address>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ceph orch daemon add mon <target_node>:<ip_address>
```

Author: Done

> ----
> 
> * Replace <target_node> with the hostname of the target node enrolled in the Ceph
> cluster
> * Replace <ip address> with the ip address of the migrated address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----

* Replace `<target_node>` with the hostname of the target node enrolled in the {Ceph}
cluster.
* Replace `<ip_address>` with the IP address of the migrated address.
```

> Get the Ceph spec and set the mon daemons to `unmanaged: false`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Get the ceph mon spec:
+
----
ceph orch ls --export mon > mon.yaml
----

> .Edit the retrieved spec and set the `unamanged` keyword to `false`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the retrieved spec and set the `unmanaged` keyword to `false`:
```

Author: Done

+
[source,yaml]
----
service_type: mon
service_id: mon
placement:
  label: mon

> unamanged: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unmanaged: false
```

Author: Done

----

> . Save the spec in /tmp/mon.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save the spec in the `/tmp/mon.yaml` directory.
```

Author: Done (file instead of directory)

> . Apply the spec with cephadm using the orchestrator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the spec with cephadm by using the orchestrator:
```

Author: Done

+
----

> sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
> ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo cephadm shell -m /tmp/mon.yaml
$ ceph orch apply -i /mnt/mon.yaml
```

Author: Done

> ----
> 
> The new mon runs on the target node with the original IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
The new mon runs on the target node with the original IP address.
```

Author: Done

As last step of the mon migration, you need to refresh the cephadm information
and reconfigure the existing daemons to exchange the map with the updated mon
references.

> 

Reviewer: Are we eventually going to split this procedure into multiple procedures? If not, we don't need this "introductory" text.

Author: Ack, this clarifies the next steps, but I'm ok to not have this amount of details.

Author: Removed

. Identify the running `mgr`:
+
----

> sudo cephadm shell -- ceph -s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ sudo cephadm shell -- ceph -s
```

Author: Done

----

. Refresh the mgr information by force-failing it:
+
----
ceph mgr fail
----

. Refresh the `OSD` information:
+
----
ceph orch reconfig osd.default_drive_group
----

+

> Verify that at this point the {CephCluster} cluster is healthy:

Author: Done

+
----
[ceph: root@oc0-controller-0 specs]# ceph -s
  cluster:
    id:     f6ec3ebe-26f7-56c8-985d-eb974e8e08e3
    health: HEALTH_OK
...
...
----

> . Repeat the procedure described in this section for any additional Controller
> node hosting a mon until you have migrated all the Ceph Mon daemons to the
> target nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Repeat this procedure  for any additional Controller
node hosting a mon until you have migrated all the Ceph Mon daemons to the
target nodes.
```

Author: Done
